---
title: January 4, 2025
date: 2025-01-04
tags:
- 1min
- tapepause
layout: minute.njk
postnumber: 370
duration: '1:04'
length: 2567313
---
Two things pulled me back to my Anthony Braxton appreciation today: I scored a pristine vinyl copy of Anthony Braxton's *For Alto* and discovered [Frog Peak had republished](https://frogpeak.org/fpartists/fpbraxton.html) the long-promised, nicely-laid-out editions of the Tri-Axium writings. I made a commitment last year to begin sharing my study of these, and [even made an unboxing video of the editions I received then, which got a lot of hits on youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=voyenN5ogh4).  They're really unwieldy, spiral-bound 11x17 pages though, 8.5x11 pages printed '2-up', 2 pages per sheet! For those who've been reading these daily logs, you know we've been making a major move and, as a result, the unwieldy volumes were put away for same keeping. I figured I would TRASH them if I kept lugging them around from spot-to-spot. 

Well, we're all moved in (legally, as of December 1) and now I have a real bound set of the Tri-Axium writings to dive back into. I think a new year's resolution for 2025 will be to follow through on my stated goal back in April, and I'll get journaling again and, hopefully, hear from others interested in these writings in the process. Hell maybe someone will want to play? I want to soak in the wisdom of these writings and help amplify it in some small way. 

This sound is a little edited verité from For Alto. Side 2 opens with the softest, most beautiful tone. Real inspiring, and a lovely way to close a beautiful day. 