---
title: The Painful Truth, 2020
date: 2021-03-05
tags: blog
layout: post.njk
bgImg: /img/default-bg.jpg
---
Just coming back from a 2 week unplug. Every time I kill the noise and disengage from all the obligations I've signed up for, I watch my mind unwind over the space of 5 days until I'm not subconsciously running inventory at 140 bpm every night, waiting for sleep. Stasis follows, and if I'm fortunate I remember to get into a play zone and draw, write or make noise. This is the space where the Satori happens.

There's got to be a specific zen word for forgetting obvious shit. I don't know it, though I don't think it's obvious nor something I knew at some point, but what do I know? I, apparently, cannot remember.  In the brilliant 1982 Canadian film Strange Brew, protagonists Bob and Doug McKenzie are being held for trial, and are offered smokes by a cellmate. To maintain some masculinity, Doug says, "no way, eh, we want our lungs to be pink when they fry us." I've gotten no tattoos because I've never seen anything I think 90-year-old me would want to see or read off of his own papery skin, but now I'm keeping a list of candidates that I seem to forget every time my head gets full. I thought I'd want to stay pink but maybe this is the way to remember - write it on skin.  Randoms from my book: Don't censor yourself, remember to bend and not break, be an uncarved block, regularly give yourself an idle window to fuck around, whatever big plans you come up with, let them go, unconditional friendliness, finish pieces to suck the energy and satisfaction out of them, drop the story and focus on the perceived feeling.

We're all swinging between stasis and freakout, and no way will we ever objectively see things the exact same way.  A commemorative Trump coin could be construed as a middle finger, a fart, or a statement about defiance against conformity. I read this semiotics thing trying to illustrate the problem of context and, as an image anyway, it comes to mind: A and B are walking down the stairs with glasses of wine, A loses footing, wine sloshes almost-but-not-quite out of A's glass, thanks to A's contorted body movements to save. [Event X] B laughs. They join C at the dinner table, and right before B sits down, they imitate the wine-slosh-dance [Event Y], A + B laugh, C needs explanation. Is it possible to explain? Even if you explain Event X it to C, they see it through Event Y.

Just found out my friend Jill, whom I worked with at the YWCA for 5 years in the early 90s, died alone in July. Over the years, we tried to talk her out of the slow decline alcohol and cigs were pulling her into, but we had no context for what they did for her. Super dark childhood, dirt poor drugged up teenage - mid 20s, then safety in a job at the Y, where she could work supported and unjudged, and alas untreated. I don't know the perception she had of the decline, but not seeing it the same way robbed me/us of the ability to language a convincing case for her to pull out. I last spoke to her in 2001.

So the painful truth in this rant vent is somewhere in there - this constant shifting of perspective is masquerading as polarization in a lot of people, but minds are supple and constantly changing. It's a rarity when they align on something for good - unattended things go dark and I am thinking a lot about how to get light on some things instead.
